Welcome back.
In this video I would like to show you how you can play around with your UI and the idea behind this
video is to show you how it's done with this table widget but you can pretty much do that with any other
element that you see in your eyes here.
So the idea is that you can see here on the ride plenty of properties which you can change.
So currently I have the button selected and there are already quite some elements that I can change
or properties that I can change but if I press on the widget here and this table would then then I get
so many more as you can see there are plenty that can change all the cue widget once.
So as you know they are inheriting from each other right.
So you can see there is a very long inheritance here.
Heather is inheriting from table widget table widget is inheriting from table view which is inheriting
from an abstract item view which is inherited from an abstract scroll area from frame from widget from
object so you can see a long hierarchy here.
But let's say we look at the header here.
Let's start from the bottom.
So we have this header let me make this a little wider.
And it's not appearing in my case.
It's not cool.
It's at the bottom the top here.
OK.
So I dragged this to the side.
And now I can change value So for example the header which is this header here at the top.
I can make so that the vertical header is invisible so let me uncheck it.
You can see that the vertical one so the numbers that we had at the left is suddenly invisible so that
activated again suddenly it's back there again.
Same for the horizontal head are visible so I can deactivate it.
Suddenly it's gone.
So we don't see City and inhabitants anymore.
And by the way this year other side here in this wooded area here on the right hand side is moving all
the time for me and that has to do with my set up of my window so I have made the Y bigger so you can
see better.
But that's the side effect that I get so I have to drag it all the time.
If you find a solution for that let me know.
And in your case hopefully you don't have this issue.
But usually you shouldn't get this issue when you have the standard size of your Newfies in Windows.
In my case I used a custom one that's why I get this.
OK.
So get back to the headers and back to generally changing properties.
So you see these are just some examples of the properties I could say horizontal head or defaults section
size should not be 139 pixels.
But let's say it's 200 pixels and you suddenly see that it's a lot wider.
So I have a much wider standard.
Of course if you run this you can still added it.
At least that's the standard.
You could even activate the highlight sections here stretch last section.
So we get to that image activated you can see it stretches it to do with the screen.
I personally like that.
I think it's a good thing so it stretches on the width of our whole window that we have here.
Then if we go a little bit up so that's the header you can play around with those values.
I would really recommend to do that but check out the table view.
Showbread Well we have this grid.
We could even deactivate that.
So let me get rid of this.
You can see there is no grit anymore so I only have the values in there now or if I want to make this
a different type of line.
So now I have a solid line but it could be a dashed line.
You know I have plenty of dashes there.
So you see a lot of changes that we can do or we can make here.
So then abstract item.
We can all the scroll.
So we can add a scroll bar we can drag enabled.
Well it's not unable to in our case we could activate dragging we could change icons last where we don't
have icons.
OK.
So just play around with those values.
But there is something that I still would like to show you.
And in enqueue widget.
So in here or actually it's not even in key widget because we've used widget a lot but it's not an abstract
item you.
So there is something called added Trigger's which is pretty cool.
So let's check this out adage triggers are as you can see here there's a list of added triggers double
clicked added key pressed any key pressed key.
What does that mean.
Let's check it out.
Let's go back to Parcher and run our application.
And now I can double click here and change de-value.
But I can also just select it and change the value by typing something or I can press enter and then
change the value.
So these are pretty much the changes that we allow here.
And that is based on what we have selected here.
So under added triggers an abstract item you.
So you can even say something like No added triggers if we actually read that then all the others are
the activated as you can see.
So double clicked with this de-activated and any key press deactivated so let me save that real quick
and go back to PI charm.
Then of course rebuild my built or rerun my build recompile it once that is done.
I run my main again to run the application.
And now let me double click no changes and just something no changes.
Press Enter no changes.
So no I cannot interact with the data anymore.
And now you might say.
All right so what's the use of it then.
Well the use could be that you for example can write a little program which will then block it so you
can make some changes.
But then as soon as you press safe for example you cannot edited anymore or you press safe and then
you send it to someone and nobody can edit it or something like that.
So you could pretty much use that technology in your advantage or to you do it to your advantage.
So let's go back here and let's go back to the default value so no added triggered.
Well I'm going to say double clicked and I'm going I say added he pressed and you keep pressed as well.
Actually there's even something called all added triggers so selected click then current changes so
you can pretty much say all the triggers should be active or none of them.
So you can see under Edit triggers you can find all of those different trigger properties and you could
even access those via a code.
All right.
So I'm going to stop here because I could of course go on and on but all of those properties here.
But that's not really the idea of this video.
The idea is that use the objects that you want to use so use the widgets and buttons and containers
and stuff like that and then check out the properties just to see what you can change just to see how
you can improve the UI that it does what you wanted to do that it looks like what you wanted to do and
so forth.
So that's really the idea behind this video.
So that's just for you to want to see that.
Once again we have used it already before but you saw some more examples of what you can do and what
you can do with a particular widget.
So the properties of a particular widget or a particular button or container there they differ.
So they are different for pretty much any of them because as you can see they might inherit from the
same classes but then they have something that is different for themselves.
So for that particular element that you're looking at.
OK.
So I'd say that's good for now.
And let's check on the next video where we are going to react to changes in cells and we're going to
check out the documentation as well.
So see you there.